I'd like to welcome you to the
Open Directory in-depth presentation.
I'm really excited about this technology.
I was doing a countdown with my manager.
I haven't introduced a new
technology in eight years.
I've been talking about Open Directory.
I love Open Directory.
I'm still the manager.
But I am really,
really excited about this technology.
I think you're going to enjoy the demos.
We're going to have a good time.
And we're going to do
a little podcasting.
Who likes podcasting by applause?
So what, so I'm David O'Rourke,
I'm the engineering manager.
I wasn't quite sure what to put as
my job title because we hadn't named
the product when I made up the slide,
so I am the engineering manager for
podcasting and also open directory,
but we're here to talk about podcasting.
So what are we going to do today?
First of all,
as some of you might notice,
podcasting has been
taking the world by storm.
Solutions are coming from
fast and furious from a lot
of things and we at Apple,
having some involvement
in this technology,
felt that we should have some
server solutions that offer a lot of
different solutions to make your life
easier and try to bring podcasting
to your everyday life in a way
that you can manage it and deploy it.
So as part of the presentation,
we're going to go over podcasting
today where I personally see and
where Apple sees the technology
and what people are doing with it.
We're going to be talking about our
solution for podcast production.
We're going to go over a simple case
study which I think will crystallize
for you what it is we really
see this technology being used.
We don't think this is the only usage,
but it's one of the most obvious.
And what changes are we making
to Mac OS X Server to make
sure that you can deploy this?
So where is podcasting today?
Well, Apple and the industry provide
a wealth of tools to capture,
edit and produce content.
You've got QuickTime,
you've got Final Cut Pro,
you've got just a ton, a ton,
a ton of tools that can capture video.
Some are from Apple,
some are from other vendors.
There's really no problem
generating content.
In fact,
I've heard the opposite from customers.
They're generating too much content
and they don't know what to do with it.
There's multiple methods
for publishing the content.
You can publish it by
RSS feeds like podcasting.
You can use your blog.
You can use a QuickTime streaming server.
You can even distribute it by
DVD if you want to sit there and
feed discs into the DVD player.
But it is a method by which you
can distribute your content.
And there's multiple ways for
people to view this content.
They can use their iPod videos.
They can use their DVD players.
They can use their
computers as a DVD player.
I have Mac Mini set up at home.
I bought a Mac Mini for my three
televisions and use it just as a
dedicated DVD player for each of the TVs.
iTunes plays back videos and even phones.
How many of you in this room
have phones for which you can
watch video by show of hands?
I mean, it's just amazing.
So, you can capture the content,
you can distribute it
and you can play it back.
So, what's missing?
So, all the pieces exist today.
The challenge with all this is if
you want to turn it into a podcast
and get it into your customer's hand,
The steps to take it from capture
The toolset to DVD are mostly manual.
You have to know how to use
all the tools in the middle.
The technology is available,
but it requires someone to follow
a very complex set of steps.
I sat down and tried to produce a podcast
from iMovie all the way out to a blog.
And while it was not terrible,
it certainly wasn't something my mother
could handle and certainly wasn't
something I could do on a daily basis.
Processes that are
manual aren't repeatable.
You don't want to have to have someone
like myself or yourself sitting there
doing this process over and over again.
And if you start thinking about it,
what if I needed to do that process
50 times a day or 50 times an hour
or in some cases 50 times a minute?
How would you go about doing that?
I don't see how you would with
the tools that exist today.
So it requires expertise with a
very diverse set of technologies.
Like if you want to produce a video
with three different bandwidths,
you have to choose save as
three times from Final Cut Pro.
I mean, it's not terrible,
but I don't want to
do that for 50 videos.
You need to know where to post the video.
Do I use FTP?
Do I use Fetch?
Do I use the finder's FTP support?
How do I get the video where I want it?
So producing a podcast today is largely,
in my opinion, a hand-built exercise.
We have all the tools,
but it requires a real craftsman to
produce the entire product end-to-end.
And these processes, as I said,
are not repeatable.
It's about as automated as producing
a car was prior to Model T.
I mean,
there were cars before the Model T,
but it was a hand-built
exercise to produce a car.
Henry Ford came along and he
made it so he could turn out,
you know, I don't know,
thousands an hour.
Leopard will ship, Leopard Server,
slide's a mistake,
Leopard Server will ship with a
product we call Podcast Producer.
And what Henry Ford did
for producing cars,
Podcast Producer will do
for producing podcasts.
Leopard Podcast Producer fully automates
the process of content ingestion all the
way out to production and publishing.
Producing anything requires planning.
This is not a one-shot thing.
But once it's deployed,
you can use Podcaster Producer to
reliably and automatically
produce podcasts on a daily basis.
People who are submitting content into
the system don't have to know what
the system is doing with the video.
So they no longer have to be experts
in the technology because you can
internalize all that with scripts and
workflows that we'll go into later.
If you go from producing 50
videos a day to 50 videos an hour,
you can transparently scale the
system by adding more computers
to process more video per hour.
Raw materials flow in,
finished podcasts flow out to
wherever you specify them to go.
Producing something requires control
of the producing infrastructure.
So we're going to build
in control and management.
If you have a certain set of cameras
that are on campus that are recording
lectures like this one or other things,
you don't want the students to
be able to interrupt the lecture.
So we're going to put the normal
server admin and manageability
controls into the product so that you
can control who can use the resource.
You can change the process in production.
Say your site decides that we want
four versions of every video rather
than three versions of every video.
You can change that process without
having to tell the submitters
that there's a new process.
So, what resources does Apple think you
need to deploy this type of system?
Well,
a producer system consists of what we
consider the following four components.
It consists of a set of resources
from which content can be captured.
At the lowest end,
this could be a Mac Mini with a
digital video camera plugged into it,
plugged into the network.
You need a server to collect the
video from all of these cameras.
You need some scripts or what
we call workflows that say every
time a video gets submitted,
do this to it.
It's a stamp, it's a recipe.
Every time a video comes in,
do these 12 things, do these 50 things,
do these 100 things.
And you need servers
to store all this data.
This is why we like this product
because we're going to sell you servers.
And you need storage to save and
publish the distribution content.
X-rayed, X-San to store the content.
So, what this might look like is a set
of Macintosh Minis or any Macintosh,
anything that can have a digital
video camera plugged into it.
And those things will
submit data to a farm,
to a server farm.
The server will process the
farm and then publish the video
out to various web servers,
email servers, QTSS servers,
possibly an archival system
that's unique to your institution.
And your clients can use their iMacs,
their iTunes,
their phones and their iPods
to receive the content.
And as we go through the presentation,
you'll see that at every
step along the way,
we've adopted standards.
So, there's nothing here.
This proprietary.
So you can intercept this and
deploy it using any technologies
you're already familiar with.
So what's a case study of this example?
And I mentioned it earlier.
A university lecture is our
touchstone or the way we think about
this product and make sure we're
on track as we're developing it.
A mythical university would put
cameras into each of the lecture
rooms or certain lecture rooms.
The instructors would be allowed by the
system to start and stop the camera.
So the model would be the
instructor walks into a lecture,
logs onto a machine at the podium,
picks the room that he's in
and says start recording.
He then does his lecture
for an hour or so.
When he's done,
he stops the lecture and the camera
uploads the video to the system.
At that point, the lecture is done.
The system administrator or the
university has decided what will
be done with all those lecture
videos and they put a workflow up
on the podcast producer that will
execute that instructor's video.
Lectures, for example,
could be sampled down to three versions,
a high bitrate version,
a low bitrate version, a medium.
Audio could be extracted so that
people could just get an audio.
And lectures are automatically
archived to the XSAN system for
future generations of students.
The lecturer doesn't have to know nor
care that any of this is going on.
All he did was start and stop a camera.
So an example in action
is lecture walks in,
logs on to Safari.
We've modified Blossom,
which we'll show you.
And he decides he wants
to start a camera,
so he uses Safari, picks the camera,
starts the recording.
The camera in the back of the room
that he picked records his lecture.
He hits stop.
The cameras submit the lecture
to the podcast producer system.
The podcast producer system
chews on it for a bit.
Video encoding is expensive.
It takes a while.
When it's done producing all
the versions of the video,
it publishes it to the email server,
the webinar, RSS feed,
the QTSS server and copies
it automatically to a system
that's purely an archive server.
As the archive fills up,
you give us more money and
we give you another X-ray.
The point is the students use
the technology that they already
have in Tiger and in some cases
Panther to access the video so you
don't have to provide your students
with any actual new software for
them to consume these videos.
I'm looking at this slide
and it's a bit too static.
I think what I'd really like
to do is maybe demo this.
Who would like to see a demo?
Fantastic.
At this point in time,
I'd like to invite David Kraemer
up and we're going to show you
this all working in real life.
Hello everyone,
I'm David Kraemer and I'll be
showing you Podcast Producer.
So, we'll start out,
I actually want to show you the
student experience first to use
Dave's example because we really like
to focus on the end-user experience
of what it's like to enjoy what
you've created with your content.
And then I will show you how we actually
create the content in the first place
and get it published out to the blog.
So, we'll start out,
here's my weblog and we can go
check out and see what we have here.
We actually have session 531,
this session, already posted.
So, let's, we can subscribe to
this podcast right here.
Just click on that link.
Opens up iTunes, iTunes subscribes.
We can watch the video.
So we did this just a couple minutes
ago while Dave was introducing this.
So, just works like that real quick.
Well, that's basically it.
That's what students are going to do.
They're going to get back to their room,
their dorm room after the lecture.
They're going to open up iTunes
and it'll just automatically
download the latest video.
So what's more interesting
though is how to create it,
because that's why you guys are here.
It's about podcast producer,
not podcast downloader.
You all can already download podcasts.
So we actually can do the recording
right here from the same blog,
but what the teacher,
the lecturer would do is log in.
And they would see down here a new link,
recording.
Click here and we're given
the opportunity to select
which room we want to record.
So right now we only have
one camera hooked up.
It's this guy right here.
We're actually using the built-in
camera on this MacBook Pro.
So what I'm going to do is
I'm going to record you guys.
And I'll tell you when to wave.
So I title it, give it a description.
I'm going to automatically post this
to the blog as part of the workflow.
And what's going to happen is
once this recording is finished,
three different versions of this
video are going to be created.
There's going to actually,
there's going to be an audio only
version so that people who don't have
video capable iPods or just want to
take it to go while they're listening,
while they're in the gym,
they can download the audio podcast.
We're also going to
create a iPod sized video.
And then we're also going to keep a
copy of the high quality video that was
recorded in case we need to create other
versions at some point in the future.
So just by clicking here, record,
I confirm.
And hopefully the little
green light turned on here.
You can all wave.
All right.
So I'll stop it.
We're done.
And we're done with that.
So now we can pop down and take a look at
What's going on?
And we can see the job gets submitted
from the camera to the X Grid controller
and X Grid starts running this
on your cluster of grid agents.
In this case, we only have one agent,
so it's not going to
go as fast as possible.
If you had 10 agents,
you could have 10 classrooms all
finishing their lecture at the same time,
all getting uploaded to the server
and all being done in parallel.
So this is going pretty quick,
but before I show you the result of this,
I want to show you the email.
So what happens is when
the recording is completed,
an email is sent to both the
administrator of the camera and the
person who initiated the recording.
And so here we can see that
the recording succeeded.
It was 13 seconds.
Where was it from?
And it's being uploaded
and submitted to Xgrid now.
So yeah, there we are.
Then this also goes to the administrator.
And when XRID receives the job,
the grid administrator gets an email
that tells them the job started,
when it was submitted
and when it started.
They also get the
notification when it finishes.
And you could use this for accounting
to keep track of who did what when.
As part of the workflow,
when the video was transcoded
and then uploaded to the blog
and the blog entry created,
this email was sent out to both the
administrator of the camera and to the
person who initiated the recording,
me.
And this basically tells you
which files were created,
where they were put,
and then also includes a link to
actually subscribe to the podcast.
So let's head back to
the blog and reload.
And we can see that our audience
recording has shown up here.
You can watch it directly from the page.
Everybody wave.
All right, good job.
So that's pretty exciting.
Last step here, we head back to iTunes,
click update.
Every few hours it's going
to update automatically.
It downloads the latest video
and we get the same video,
dorm room delivery.
I hope you like it.
Thank you, David.
That was wonderful.
What do you think of the demo?
If you think about it that example
and action from was from a live video.
But picture being able to run this
process for your high production
value content that you're
producing with Final Cut Pro.
Why can't I just take a file from
Final Cut Pro and copy it into the system
and have a workflow applied to that too?
So that the people producing your
videos don't have to know all the
places you want to publish them,
they just submit it to the engine in the
sky and the engine processes the video.
Well that's also
supported by this product,
so you could have iMovie or
Final Cut Pro take the output
from one of those files,
have it submit to the system directly,
have them process it and then the system
will apply the same workflow rules
that it would have to a live video
and you can take your high production
quality content and run it through the
system and have a recipe applied to it.
Again at a rate that you can
actually sustain and start
effectively deploying podcasts.
Again the students as you saw,
there's no new technology out on the
receiver end for the students to receive.
You don't have to deploy licenses or
buy content viewing software for your
students or your target audience to
consume the data that you're producing.
So what are we going to do in
Leopard Server to produce all this?
Leopard Server will
include Podcast Producer.
We're going to give you a technology
behind the scenes overview,
drill down a little deeper,
let you show how some of the
moving parts are working.
We're going to show you how you
can scale and integrate this with
any existing production systems.
I was amazed at the complexity of
some of the production systems that
some of the high end customers that
we've been discussing this with.
And since there's
developers in the audience,
I personally believe and I'm sure you
can easily see there are third party
opportunities for you to leverage this
platform and build value on top of
this platform coming out the wazoo.
So what is podcast producer technology?
The first thing is a new piece
of software that's going to be
installed in every Leopard desktop
called the camera recording software.
This is the software that was
running on this PowerBook that
listens on the network for a
remote start and stop command.
That will be authenticated, fully secure,
it can live on your private network.
This software will use the
podcast producer server for
authentication command and control.
It uploads finished videos.
This is not a streaming solution.
I first thought this was streaming.
While the video is being recorded,
it's being spooled to
the local hard drive.
Not until the video is finished.
Does the camera upload
the video to the server?
It can upload one video while
capturing another video,
so you can do back-to-back lectures.
So one lecture finishes,
the next lecture walks in,
the new video is being recorded
while the old one is being uploaded.
If you have a fast enough network,
we haven't seen many uploads
even for an hour-long video take
over more than 10 or 12 minutes.
We're designing it to run
on low-end headless CPUs,
the Mac Mini.
We really see the Mac Mini as a,
what's the retail price right now, $699?
A $699 machine plus a $400 digital
video camera is a remote network
controlled camera running headless.
We're going to provide some
remote control software.
You saw some remote control
software that we've integrated with
the existing Tiger Blog server,
but we're also going to produce
a piece of software that will
have a nice user interface,
a photo booth or something,
that lets you see the list of
cameras and record and interact in
a high quality Apple user interface.
The server will enforce access controls.
You will be able to say on a
per camera basis who's allowed
to start and stop that camera,
who's allowed to submit videos,
all of that sort of stuff.
You will retain complete command
and control of this infrastructure.
It's a course since I'm the
Open Directory Manager fully
integrated with Open Directory.
The file transfer technology.
What did we use for file transfer?
Well, we dug deep,
we found the most sophisticated
technology we could and we used FTP.
Workflows can be specified
during the submission process.
An important part of this that
I'll be getting into later
is there's not one workflow,
there's many workflows and for each
job submission you can pick a workflow.
If you have all your machines on
a shared file system like an XSAN,
which could become increasingly
possible as technology moves forward,
the system will use CP.
We'll just use a file copy.
We won't actually
transfer it over anything.
So picture one of these systems
hooked up to a shared file system
where we don't have to really
do anything over the network.
We just need to copy the video from the
spool folder to the destination folder.
So we'll do the right thing
depending on whether you're directly
connected to the file system
or remotely connected over FTP.
There will be a podcast producer
process and what this does is
monitors and controls the cameras.
It enforces access controls and
it's the thing that notices a new
job showed up in one of the drop
folders and submits the job to Xgrid.
That's all it does.
It doesn't do any more than that.
It just, it's kind of the coordinator.
It's the conductor of the entire system.
Xgrid plays a key role in
all of this technology.
This is where we get a lot
of our processing scale.
What's really cool about this technology
is podcast producer workflows are just
Xgrid job templates with the file name
left as an exercise for the reader.
So anything you can specify as an Xgrid
job can be run by this workflow engine.
And when the file gets substituted,
the podcast producer engine fills the
file name in and submits the Xgrid job.
You can add additional
computers to Xgrid.
When there's more than one job pending,
Xgrid will schedule the job on
as many computers as you have.
Like I said, if you go from 50 videos a
day to 50 videos an hour,
you just give us money for computational
nodes for Xgrid and you now have a
much more capable production system.
For those of you who don't know,
Xgrid jobs can execute any Unix
command line tool or script.
What could you do with video processing
with any Unix command at your beck
and call for your submitted video?
Workflows can be easily customized.
So if you just edit the workflow,
you've now got,
if what we ship you as a workflow is only
12 steps and you want it to be 15 steps,
go edit the workflow, boom, bada bing,
bada boom, you've got your own
customized workflow engine.
This is an opportunity for both end
user customers to customize this
technology and for third parties to
provide useful workflows as recipes
to the podcast producer platform.
As I've said before,
workflows are just an X-Grid job.
We are going to ship with several
common and useful workflows.
You saw some of them here today.
There's some other workflows we
already have defined like audio only.
We have some screen scraping workflows.
We have a lot of workflows that
the system is going to ship with.
So it will be useful to you out the gate.
But the workflows that we ship by
no means will be the limits of what
the system is capable of doing.
You can do anything for
which you could buy,
beg, borrow, steal or actually code a
Unix command line tool.
Some examples of basic operations
that will be supported by the
system are video transcoding,
screen size, bit rate, codec choices,
audio extraction.
And where do you post the output?
Do I post the output to email?
Do I post it to QTSS?
Do I post it to an RSS feed?
Do I post it to an HTTP server?
Do I post it to a file copy?
Or do I ship the data off to
another Unix script which then
processes the video even further?
With the built-in command line
tools and workflow templates,
it's already useful,
but you can customize them.
We're going to do full
integration across the board.
How many of you would like to see full
Teams integration with this product
so that the podcast producers...
We figured that out.
One of my jobs after WWDC is to sit down
with the teams people and figure out
how we're going to do the integration.
The reason we're not as far
along with this is we've
recently come up with this idea.
You're seeing a very
early technology preview.
Not only is this new technology for me,
and not only am I very excited about it,
but it's so new to us that we're
still in the process of designing it.
So you're getting a rare sneak peek
at a technology that isn't yet fully
flushed out and we're still designing it.
So we're going to be looking
for your feedback after
WWDC and get your feedback.
creative ideas as to what you
think the product should be.
[Transcript missing]
Again, I want to emphasize workflows are
just Xgrid jobs and Xgrid can execute
any legal Unix script or command.
So you can do anything with
these workflows you want to
accommodate any deployment topology.
So what would a simple podcast
producer deployment look like?
Well, we recommend for the simple
configuration two cameras,
no more than two cameras,
just two cameras, no.
One server probably with an x-ray,
all the services running
on a single server.
That alone is enough to get all of
your content delivered to all of your
students or all of your customers.
A medium complexity podcast producer
solution might look more like this.
Three cameras,
no more than three cameras.
Talking to a slightly bigger
engine with computational nodes.
I want you to note the correct
artwork for the computational
nodes at the bottom.
There's not three drive bays there.
So this can process more videos
per hour than a single CPU could.
Hosting to separate servers hosting web,
RSS and QTSS.
The reason you would do this
is if you had a large student
population doing a lot of downloads,
you don't want the web servers time
impacting the video processing time.
So you separate the CPUs to keep
the processing on separate CPUs.
The students don't know the difference.
They're still using the same software.
They're still receiving the
links over email or however
you choose to publish it.
You can even go complex.
If you think about it, there are some,
well, we're live recording this,
multiple cameras in
this particular session.
What's to stop this conference room from
having a podcast producer engine here
at WWDC that after this lecture is over,
we're tying in with a very
sophisticated production system.
I don't know how many of you know
about the AV work that goes in
to carry these conferences off.
It's not simple.
I tried to figure it out one day.
I couldn't.
This is a very complex production
enterprise and I think you can all
see that this could very easily
integrate with podcast producer.
So all the way from live video
capture with a built-in eyesight,
which I won't recommend
for capturing lectures,
all the way up to a high-def
camera submitting directly to the
system through multiple broadcast
and video management technology.
Third party integration
opportunities here are stunning,
in my opinion.
The basic feature set is
going to be very useful.
The feature set that we ship
in the box is going to be
useful to an extraordinarily
large number of customers.
But Apple's not going to provide
everything on this particular thing.
There are lots and lots and lots
of opportunities for developers
to enhance this platform.
The three integration points that
I'm going to go through today
are direct content submission,
enhancement to workflow choices,
and post-processing the
results of a given workflow.
Direct content submission.
How many of you would like a save as
in your favorite video app that saves
directly to this system so I don't
have to use the finder to do a copy?
So the first integration point is if you
have an app that produces video content,
integrate it directly into that app.
We'll work with you to define
the technology and the APIs.
The submission protocol will be FTP.
CF Network makes it trivial to use FTP.
It should be really,
really easy for your application to
directly support direct submission
to the podcast producer system.
The second integration point is
the application of the product.
The application is a very simple
and easy way to use the FTP.
You can use it to create a video,
to post your video or to use the FTP.
We'll talk about that in a little bit.
The second integration point
I think is very obvious,
workflow enhancements.
I don't think the 12 or 14 workflows
we're going to provide are going to cover
everybody's requirements in the audience.
We're going to need command line tools
that do really clever things with video.
We're going to need a lot of stuff.
The sorts of high-end
processing that could be done
with this are also stunning.
Could you do facial recognition on the
video and produce a list of who attended?
Would be a very interesting
podcast producer job.
Again, Xgrid jobs are simply jobs
describing a set of commands
to be executed on the grid.
If you have a command line
tool that can process video,
you can make it part of
the podcast workflow.
If you write new tools or scripts,
I really don't see an end to this.
iMovie plugins that do
fancy video transformations,
a huge market for that.
How many of you are going to
want video transformations on
your podcast producer videos?
I think we can integrate
a lot of that stuff.
The third one is kind of
a flavor of the first one,
which is post-processing the results.
And I think the only difference
between post-processing and modifying a
workflow is when is the processing done.
And in this case the processing
could be done after the
video is published or posted.
So does anyone here have a
digital asset management system
they've deployed on campus?
I don't see any.
Okay, a couple.
Yeah,
certainly post-processing here would
be automatic posting of the digital
assets to that existing system.
That could be something added to the
workflow or added to the scripts.
So the real issue here is whether
the process works during the process
or does it work after the process.
Either way,
I think it's a huge opportunity
for third parties and consumers
to customize this platform.
So in summation,
podcast producer is a new
and powerful set of services.
We think it makes deploying and
hosting and publishing podcasts
easier than it's ever been.
We're using standards
throughout the product.
There's no mystery.
There's no mystery meat here.
All the standards are laid bare.
It's all using technology.
You've all already deployed.
So this allows you to easily mix
and match and substitute the system.
We're going to add server
command and control so that you
can actually manage the system.
If you have 500 cameras,
you want to know who's
using those cameras,
when they're using the cameras,
and make sure that the students
aren't stopping the lectures
in the middle of the lecture.
So all the major access controls
and we'll be fully integrated with
server admin groups and SACLs.
How many people use
SACLs on Tiger Server?
Service access controls?
We're going to be using SACL models
on the camera so you can lock down a
camera then only these five instructors
can start and stop this camera.
And we're going to integrate the
Mac OS X Server technologies,
QTSS, Open Directory, Teams, Wikis,
any number of technologies,
because there could be a lot
of different places that you
want this stuff published.
I learned a new feature the other day.
The calendar server can have enclosures.
Well, picture posting a video for an
event that's scheduled that every,
maybe every day on Wednesday, you know,
that you go over last week's lecture.
Well, you could include the lecture in
the meeting maker attachment or
not the meeting maker attachment,
the iCal server attachment
that automatically gets posted.
I think the possibilities
here are endless.
So podcast producer is going
to allow you to manage,
publish and produce podcasts on
a scale never before considered.
I mean,
I could easily see the system managing
five to six hundred videos an hour.
So for more information,
you can contact our
technology evangelist,
Skip Levens.
I'm sure some of you will be
ringing his phone right away.